[solarforecast] initial contribution (#13308)
openhab/openhab-addons: bundles/org.openhab.binding.solarforecast/README.md

## Solcast Configuration

[Solcast service](https://solcast.com/) requires a personal registration with an e-mail address.
A free version for your personal home PV system is available in [Hobbyist Plan](https://toolkit.solcast.com.au/register/hobbyist)
You need to configure your home photovoltaic system within the web interface.
The `resourceId` for each PV plane is provided afterwards.

In order to receive proper timestamps double check your time zone in *openHAB - Settings - Regional Settings*.
Correct time zone is necessary to show correct forecast times in UI. 

### Solcast Bridge Configuration

| Name                   | Type    | Description                           | Default     | Required | Advanced |
|------------------------|---------|---------------------------------------|-------------|----------|----------|
| apiKey                 | text    | API Key                               | N/A         | yes      | no       |
| timeZone               | text    | Time Zone of forecast location        | empty       | no       | yes      |

`apiKey` can be obtained in your [Account Settings](https://toolkit.solcast.com.au/account)

> `timeZone` leave it empty to evaluate Regional Settings of your openHAB installation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`timeZone` can be left empty to evaluate Regional Settings of your openHAB installation. 
```

Author: changed

[Horizon information](https://doc.forecast.solar/doku.php?id=api) as comma-separated integer list.
This configuration item is aimed to expert users.
You need to understand the [horizon concept](https://joint-research-centre.ec.europa.eu/pvgis-photovoltaic-geographical-information-system/getting-started-pvgis/pvgis-user-manual_en#ref-2-using-horizon-information).
Shadow obstacles like mountains, hills, buildings can be expressed here.
First step can be a download from [PVGIS tool](https://re.jrc.ec.europa.eu/pvg_tools/en/) and downloading the *terrain shadows*.
But it doesn't fit 100% to the required configuration.
Currently there's no tool available which is providing the configuration information 1 to 1.
So you need to know what you're doing.

## ForecastSolar Channels

Each `fs-plane` reports its own values including a `json` channel holding JSON content.
The `fs-site` bridge sums up all attached `fs-plane` values and provides the total forecast for your home location.  

Channels are covering today's actual data with current, remaining and total prediction.
Forecasts are delivered up to 3 days for paid personal plans.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

### `getForecastBegin`

Returns `Instant` of the earliest possible forecast data available.
It's located in the past, e.g. Solcast provides data from the last 7 days.
`Instant.MAX` is returned in case of no forecast data is available.

### `getForecastEnd`

Returns `Instant` of the latest possible forecast data available.
`Instant.MIN` is returned in case of no forecast data is available.

### `getPower`

| Parameter | Type          | Description                                                                                |
|-----------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| timestamp | Instant       | Timestamp of power query                                                                   |
| mode      | String        | Choose `average`, `optimistic` or `pessimistic` to select forecast scenario. Only Solcast. |

Returns `QuantityType<Power>` at the given `Instant` timestamp.
Respect `getForecastBegin` and `getForecastEnd` to get a valid value.

Check log or catch exceptions for error handling

- `IllegalArgumentException` thrown in case of problems with call arguments

> - `SolarForecastException` thrown in case of problems with timestamp and available forecast data

Reviewer: Just to be sure, since I haven't tried throwing exceptions from actions: Are they only caught and logged by the rule engine, or can they be caught by rules? Which automations did you test with?

You need to configure your home photovoltaic system within the web interface.
The `resourceId` for each PV plane is provided afterwards.

In order to receive proper timestamps double check your time zone in *openHAB - Settings - Regional Settings*.
Correct time zone is necessary to show correct forecast times in UI. 

### Solcast Tuning

You have the opportunity to [send your own measurements back to Solcast API](https://legacy-docs.solcast.com.au/#measurements-rooftop-site).
This data is used internally to improve the forecast for your specific site.
Configuration and channels can be set after checking the *Show advanced* checkbox.
You need an item which reports the electric power for the specific rooftop. 
If item isn't set, no measures will be sent.
As described in [Solcast Rooftop Measurement](https://legacy-docs.solcast.com.au/#measurements-rooftop-site) check in beforehand if your measures are *sane*.

- item is delivering correct values and they are stored in persistence
- time zone setting in openHAB is correct to deliver correct timestamp

After measurement is sent the `raw-tuning` channel is reporting the result.

> 

Reviewer: I believe this chapter is no longer relevant?

Author: True, removed

`apiKey` can be obtained in your [Account Settings](https://toolkit.solcast.com.au/account)

`timeZone` leave it empty to evaluate Regional Settings of your openHAB installation. 
See [DateTime](#date-time) section for more information.

### Solcast Plane Configuration

| Name            | Type    | Description                                            | Default         | Required | Advanced |
|-----------------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|----------|----------|
| resourceId      | text    | Resource Id of Solcast rooftop site                    | N/A             | yes      | no       |
| refreshInterval | integer | Forecast Refresh Interval in minutes                   | 120             | yes      | no       |

`resourceId` for each plane can be obtained in your [Rooftop Sites](https://toolkit.solcast.com.au/rooftop-sites)

`refreshInterval` of forecast data needs to respect the throttling of the Solcast service. 
If you have 25 free calls per day, each plane needs 2 calls per update a refresh interval of 120 minutes will result in 24 calls per day.

> Note: `channelRefreshInterval` from [Bridge Configuration](#solcast-bridge-configuration) will calculate intermediate values without requesting new forecast data.

Reviewer: This does not exist?

Author: Removed - channelRefreshInterval was removed after rework

## Solcast Channels

Each `sc-plane` reports its own values including a `raw` channel holding JSON content.
The `sc-site` bridge sums up all attached `sc-plane` values and provides total forecast for your home location.  

Channels are covering today's actual data with current, remaining and today's total prediction.
Forecasts are delivered up to 6 days in advance.

> Scenarios are clustered in groups 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scenarios are clustered in groups:
```

Author: Added

- `average` scenario
- `pessimistic` scenario: 10th percentile 
- `optimistic` scenario: 90th percentile

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed

| energy-remain           | Number:Energy | kWh  | Today's remaining forecast till sunset          | no       |
| energy-today            | Number:Energy | kWh  | Today's forecast in total                       | no       |
| raw                     | String        | -    | Plain JSON response without conversions         | yes      |

## ForecastSolar Configuration

[ForecastSolar service](https://forecast.solar/) provides a [public free](https://forecast.solar/#accounts) plan.
You can try it without any registration or other preconditions.

### ForecastSolar Bridge Configuration

| Name                   | Type    | Description                           | Default      | Required |
|------------------------|---------|---------------------------------------|--------------|----------|
| location               | text    | Location of Photovoltaic system       | empty        | yes      |
| apiKey                 | text    | API Key                               | N/A          | no       |

`location` defines latitude, longitude values of your PV system.
In case of empty the location configured in openHAB is obtained.

> `apiKey` can be given in case you subscribed to a paid plan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`apiKey` can be given in case you subscribed to a paid plan.
```

Author: Added

This data is used internally to improve the forecast for your specific site.
Configuration and channels can be set after checking the *Show advanced* checkbox.
You need an item which reports the electric power for the specific rooftop. 
If item isn't set, no measures will be sent.
As described in [Solcast Rooftop Measurement](https://legacy-docs.solcast.com.au/#measurements-rooftop-site) check in beforehand if your measures are *sane*.

- item is delivering correct values and they are stored in persistence
- time zone setting in openHAB is correct to deliver correct timestamp

After measurement is sent the `raw-tuning` channel is reporting the result.

### Solcast Bridge Configuration

| Name                   | Type    | Description                           | Default     | Required | Advanced |
|------------------------|---------|---------------------------------------|-------------|----------|----------|
| apiKey                 | text    | API Key                               | N/A         | yes      | no       |
| channelRefreshInterval | integer | Channel Refresh Interval in minutes   | 1           | yes      | no       |

> | timeZone               | text    | Time Zone of forecast location        | auto-detect | no       | yes      |

Author: Changed this

`powerItem` shall reflect the power for this specific rooftop. 
It's an optional setting and the [measure is sent to Solcast API in order to tune the forecast](https://legacy-docs.solcast.com.au/#measurements-rooftop-site) in the future.
If you don't want to send measures to Solcast, leave this configuration item empty.

`powerUnit` is set to `auto-detect`. 
In case the `powerItem` is delivering a valid `QuantityType<Power>` state, this setting is fine.
If the item delivers a raw number without unit, please select `powerUnit` accordingly if item state, is Watt or Kilowatt unit. 

## Solcast Channels

Each `sc-plane` reports its own values including a `raw` channel holding JSON content.
The `sc-site` bridge sums up all attached `sc-plane` values and provides the total forecast for your home location.  

Channels are covering today's actual data with current, remaining and today's total prediction.
Forecasts are delivered up to 6 days in advance including 

- a pessimistic scenario: 10th percentile 
- an optimistic scenario: 90th percentile

> Day*X* channels are referring to forecasts plus *X* days: 1 = tomorrow, 2 = day after tomorrow, ...

Author: TimeSeries is added and tested now. It results into many changes especially regarding channels.

| dampAM          | decimal | Damping factor of morning hours                                              | N/A     | no       | true     |
| dampPM          | decimal | Damping factor of evening hours                                              | N/A     | no       | true     |
| horizon         | text    | Horizon definition as comma separated integer values                         | N/A     | no       | true     |

`refreshInterval` of forecast data needs to respect the throttling of the ForecastSolar service. 
12 calls per hour allowed from your caller IP address so for 2 planes lowest possible refresh rate is 10 minutes.

Note: `channelRefreshInterval` from [Bridge Configuration](#forecastsolar-bridge-configuration) will calculate intermediate values without requesting new forecast data.

#### Advanced Configuration

Advanced configuration parameters are available to *fine tune* your forecast data.
Read linked documentation in order to know what you're doing.

[Damping factors](https://doc.forecast.solar/doku.php?id=damping) for morning and evening.

> [Horizon information](https://doc.forecast.solar/doku.php?id=api) as comma separated integer list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Horizon information](https://doc.forecast.solar/doku.php?id=api) as comma-separated integer list.
```

Author: Fixed

This configuration item is aimed to expert users.
You need to understand the [horizon concept](https://joint-research-centre.ec.europa.eu/pvgis-photovoltaic-geographical-information-system/getting-started-pvgis/pvgis-user-manual_en#ref-2-using-horizon-information).
Shadow obstacles like mountains, hills, buildings can be expressed here.
First step can be a download from [PVGIS tool](https://re.jrc.ec.europa.eu/pvg_tools/en/) and downloading the *terrain shadows*.
But it doesn't fit 100% to the required configuration.
Currently there's no tool available which is providing the configuration information 1 to 1.
So you need to know what you're doing.

## ForecastSolar Channels

> Each `fs-plane` reports it's own values including a `raw` channel holding JSON content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each `fs-plane` reports its own values including a `raw` channel holding JSON content.
```

Author: Fixed

Respect `getForecastBegin` and `getForecastEnd` to avoid ambiguous values.
Check for `UndefType.UNDEF` in case of errors.

### `getEnergy`

| Parameter       | Type          | Description                                                                                                  |
|-----------------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| startTimestamp  | Instant       | Start timestamp of energy query                                                                              |
| endTimestamp    | Instant       | End timestamp of energy query                                                                                |
| mode            | String        | Choose `optimistic` or `pessimistic` to get values for a positive or negative future scenario. Only Solcast. |

Returns `QuantityType<Energy>` between the timestamps `startTimestamp` and `endTimestamp`.
Respect `getForecastBegin` and `getForecastEnd` to avoid ambiguous values.
Check for `UndefType.UNDEF` in case of errors.

## Date Time

Each forecast is bound to a certain location which automatically defines the time zone.

> Most common use case is forecast and your locarion are matching the same time zone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most common use case is forecast and your location are matching the same time zone.
```

Author: Fixed

Yellow line shows *Daily Total Forecast*.

<img src="./doc/SolcastCumulated.png" width="640" height="400"/>

## Supported Things

Each service needs one `xx-site` for your location and at least one photovoltaic `xx-plane`.  

| Name                              | Thing Type ID |
|-----------------------------------|---------------|
| Solcast service site definition   | sc-site       |
| Solcast PV Plane                  | sc-plane      |
| Forecast Solar site location      | fs-site       |
| Forecast Solar PV Plane           | fs-plane      |

## Solcast Configuration

[Solcast service](https://solcast.com/) requires a personal registration with an email address.
A free version for your personal home PV system is available in [Hobbyist Plan](https://toolkit.solcast.com.au/register/hobbyist)
You need to configure your home photovoltaic system within the web interface.
After configuration the necessary information is available.

In order to receive proper timestamps double check your time zone in *openHAB - Settings - Regional Settings*.
Correct time zone is necessary to show correct forecast times in UI. 

### Solcast Tuning

> You've the opportunity to [send your own measurements back to Solcast API](https://legacy-docs.solcast.com.au/#measurements-rooftop-site).

Author: fixed

| refreshInterval | integer | Forecast Refresh Interval in minutes                   | 120             | yes      | no       |
| powerItem       | text    | Power item from your solar inverter for this rooftop   | N/A             | no       | yes      |
| powerUnit       | text    | Unit selection of the powerItem                        | auto-detect     | no       | yes      |

`resourceId` for each plane can be obtained in your [Rooftop Sites](https://toolkit.solcast.com.au/rooftop-sites)

`refreshInterval` of forecast data needs to respect the throttling of the Solcast service. 
If you've 25 free calls per day, each plane needs 2 calls per update a refresh interval of 120 minutes will result in 24 calls per day.

Note: `channelRefreshInterval` from [Bridge Configuration](#solcast-bridge-configuration) will calculate intermediate values without requesting new forecast data.

`powerItem` shall reflect the power for this specific rooftop. 
It's an optional setting and the [measure is sent to Solcast API in order to tune the forecast](https://legacy-docs.solcast.com.au/#measurements-rooftop-site) in the future.

> If you don't want to sent measures to Solcast leave this configuration item empty.

Author: fixed

`powerUnit` is set to `auto-detect`. 

> In case the `powerItem` is delivering a valid `QuantityType<Power>` state this setting is fine.

Author: fixed

> If the item delivers a raw number without unit please select `powerUnit` accordingly if item state is Watt or Kilowatt unit. 

Author: fixed

> If the item delivers a raw number without unit please select `powerUnit` accordingly if item state is Watt or Kilowatt unit. 

Reviewer: Not pushed.

> If the item delivers a raw number without unit please select `powerUnit` accordingly if item state is Watt or Kilowatt unit. 

Author: Really fixed now

## Solcast Channels

> Each `sc-plane` reports it's own values including a `raw` channel holding json content.

Author: fixed

| refreshInterval | integer | Forecast Refresh Interval in minutes                                         | 30      | yes      |
| declination     | integer | Plane Declination: 0 for horizontal till 90 for vertical declination         | N/A     | yes      |
| azimuth         | integer | Plane Azimuth: -180 = north, -90 = east, 0 = south, 90 = west, 180 = north   | N/A     | yes      |
| kwp             | decimal | Installed Kilowatt Peak                                                      | N/A     | yes      |

`refreshInterval` of forecast data needs to respect the throttling of the ForecastSolar service. 
12 calls per hour allowed from your caller IP address so for 2 planes lowest possible refresh rate is 10 minutes.

Note: `channelRefreshInterval` from [Bridge Configuration](#forecastsolar-bridge-configuration) will calculate intermediate values without requesting new forecast data.

## ForecastSolar Channels

Each `fs-plane` reports it's own values including a `raw` channel holding json content.
The `fs-site` bridge sums up all attached `fs-plane` values and provides the total forecast for your home location.  

> Channels are covering todays actual data with current, remaining and today's total prediction.

Author: fixed

# SolarForecast Binding

This binding provides data from Solar Forecast services. 
Use it to estimate your daily production, plan electric consumers like Electric Vehicle charging, heating or HVAC.
Look ahead the next days in order to identify surplus / shortages in your energy planning.

Supported Services

- [Solcast](https://solcast.com/)
    - Free [Hobbyist Plan](https://toolkit.solcast.com.au/register/hobbyist) with registration
- [Forecast.Solar](https://forecast.solar/)
    - Public, Personal and Professional [plans](https://forecast.solar/#accounts) available 

> Display Forecast *Power values* and measures of *PV innverter* item

Author: fixed

<img src="./doc/SolcastPower.png" width="640" height="400"/>

> Display added up values during the day of *Forecast* and *PV inverter* item.

Author: Gibberish, I don't know  :)
I rephrased

Yellow line shows *Daily Total Forecast*.

<img src="./doc/SolcastCumulated.png" width="640" height="400"/>

## Supported Things

Each service needs one `xx-site` for your location and at least one photovoltaic `xx-plane`.  

| Name                              | Thing Type ID |
|-----------------------------------|---------------|
| Solcast service site definition   | sc-site       |
| Solcast PV Plane                  | sc-plane      |
| Forecast Solar site location      | fs-site       |
| Forecast Solar PV Plane           | fs-plane      |

## Solcast Configuration

> [Solcast service](https://solcast.com/) requires a personal registration with an email address.

Author: fixed

Channels are covering today's actual data with current, remaining and today's total prediction.
Forecasts are delivered up to 6 days in advance including 

- a pessimistic scenario: 10th percentile 
- an optimistic scenario: 90th percentile

Day*X* channels are referring to forecasts plus *X* days: 1 = tomorrow, 2 = day after tomorrow, ...

| Channel                 | Type          | Description                              | Advanced |
|-------------------------|---------------|------------------------------------------|----------|
| actual                  | Number:Energy | Today's forecast till now                | no       |
| actual-power            | Number:Power  | Predicted power in this moment           | no       |
| remaining               | Number:Energy | Forecast of today's remaining production | no       |
| today                   | Number:Energy | Today's forecast in total                | no       |
| day*X*                  | Number:Energy | Day *X* forecast in total                | no       |
| day*X*-low              | Number:Energy | Day *X* pessimistic forecast             | no       |

> | day*X*-high             | Number:Energy | Day *X* optimistic forecast              | no       |

Author: done

So you need to know what you're doing.

## ForecastSolar Channels

Each `fs-plane` reports it's own values including a `raw` channel holding json content.
The `fs-site` bridge sums up all attached `fs-plane` values and provides the total forecast for your home location.  

Channels are covering todays actual data with current, remaining and today's total prediction.
Forecasts are delivered up to 3 days for paid personal plans.

Day*X* channels are referring to forecasts plus *X* days: 1 = tomorrow, 2 = day after tomorrow, ...

| Channel                 | Type          | Description                              | Advanced |
|-------------------------|---------------|------------------------------------------|----------|
| actual                  | Number:Energy | Today's forecast till now                | no       |
| actual-power            | Number:Power  | Predicted power in this moment           | no       |
| remaining               | Number:Energy | Forecast of today's remaining production | no       |
| today                   | Number:Energy | Today's forecast in total                | no       |

> | day*X*                  | Number:Energy | Day *X* forecast in total                | no       |

Author: done

| raw                     | String        | Plain JSON response without conversions  | yes      |

> 

Author: fixed

## Thing Actions

All things `sc-site`, `sc-plane`, `fs-site` and `fs-plane` are providing the same Actions.
While channels are providing actual forecast data and daily forecasts in future Actions provides an interface to execute more sophisticated handling in rules.
You can execute this for each `xx-plane` for specific plane values or `xx-site` to sum up all attached planes.

Input for queries are `LocalDateTime` and `LocalDate` objects. 
See [Date Time](#date-time) section for more information.
Double check your time zone in *openHAB - Settings - Regional Settings* which is crucial for calculation.

### Get Forecast Begin

````java
    /**
     * Get the first date and time of forecast data
     *
     * @return your localized date time
     */

>     public LocalDateTime getForecastBegin();

Author: Changed 

PS: 
Now I see why you suggested Instant as parameter for Thing Actions. 
Nice service in Denmark , really inspiring!

Choose `optimistic` or `pessimistic` to get values for a positive or negative future scenario.
For these scenarios `localDate` needs to be between *today* and `getForecastEnd`.

### Get Energy

````java
    /**
     * Returns electric energy between two timestamps
     *
     * @param localDateTimeBegin
     * @param localDateTimeEnd
     * @param args possible arguments from this interface
     * @return QuantityType<Energy> in kW/h
     */
    public State getEnergy(LocalDateTime localDateTimeBegin, LocalDateTime localDateTimeEnd, String... args);
````

Returns `QuantityType<Energy>` between the timestamps `localDateTimeBegin` and `localDateTimeEnd`.
Respect `getForecastBegin` and `getForecastEnd` to avoid ambigouos values.
Check for `UndefType.UNDEF` in case of errors.

Solcast things are supporting arguments.
Choose `optimistic` or `pessimistic` to get values for a positive or negative future scenario.
For these scenarios `localDateTimeEnd` needs to be located between `now` and `getForecastEnd`.

## Example

Example is based on Forecast.Solar service without any registration.
Exchange the configuration data in [thing file](#thing-file) and you're ready to go.

### Thing file

> ````

Author: fixed

Bridge solarforecast:fs-site:homeSite   "ForecastSolar Home" [ location="54.321,8.976", channelRefreshInterval="1"] {
         Thing fs-plane homeSouthWest   "ForecastSolar Home South-West" [ refreshInterval=10, azimuth=45, declination=35, kwp=5.5]
         Thing fs-plane homeNorthEast   "ForecastSolar Home North-East" [ refreshInterval=10, azimuth=-145, declination=35, kwp=4.425]
}
````

### Items file

> ````

Author: Changed

Number:Power            ForecastSolarHome_Actual_Power_SW  "Actual SW Power Forecast [%.3f %unit%]"          {channel="solarforecast:fs-plane:homeSite:homeSouthWest:actual-power" }                                                                           
Number:Energy           ForecastSolarHome_Remaining_SW     "Remaining SW Forecast Today [%.3f %unit%]"       {channel="solarforecast:fs-plane:homeSite:homeSouthWest:remaining" }                                                                           
Number:Energy           ForecastSolarHome_Today_SW         "Total SW Forecast Today [%.3f %unit%]"           {channel="solarforecast:fs-plane:homeSite:homeSouthWest:today" }                                                                           
Number:Energy           ForecastSolarHome_Day_SW           "Tomorrow SW Forecast [%.3f %unit%]"              {channel="solarforecast:fs-plane:homeSite:homeSouthWest:day1" }                                                                           

> ````

Author: Changed

### Actions rule

> ````

Author: Changed

        val fcTomorrowState = solarforecastActions.getDay(LocalDate.now.plusDays(1))
        logInfo("SF Tests","Forecast tomorrow state: "+ fcTomorrowState.toString)
        val fcToTomorrowDouble = (fcTomorrowState as Number).doubleValue
        logInfo("SF Tests","Forecast tomorrow value: "+ fcToTomorrowDouble)
        
        // get power forecast in one hour
        val hourPlusOnePowerState = solarforecastActions.getPower(LocalDateTime.now.plusHours(1))
        logInfo("SF Tests","Hour+1 power state: "+ hourPlusOnePowerState.toString)
        val hourPlusOnePowerValue = (hourPlusOnePowerState as Number).doubleValue
        logInfo("SF Tests","Hour+1 power value: "+ hourPlusOnePowerValue)
        
        // get total energy forecast from now till 2 days ahead
        val twoDaysForecastFromNowState = solarforecastActions.getEnergy(LocalDateTime.now,LocalDateTime.now.plusDays(2))
        logInfo("SF Tests","Forecast 2 days state: "+ twoDaysForecastFromNowState.toString)
        val twoDaysForecastFromNowValue = (twoDaysForecastFromNowState as Number).doubleValue
        logInfo("SF Tests","Forecast 2 days value: "+ twoDaysForecastFromNowValue)
end

> ````

Author: Changed

shall produce following output

> ````

Author: Changed

2022-08-07 18:02:19.874 [INFO ] [g.openhab.core.model.script.SF Tests] - Begin: 2022-07-31T18:30 End: 2022-08-14T18:00
2022-08-07 18:02:19.878 [INFO ] [g.openhab.core.model.script.SF Tests] - Forecast tomorrow state: 55.999 kWh
2022-08-07 18:02:19.880 [INFO ] [g.openhab.core.model.script.SF Tests] - Forecast tomorrow value: 55.999
2022-08-07 18:02:19.884 [INFO ] [g.openhab.core.model.script.SF Tests] - Hour+1 power state: 2.497 kW
2022-08-07 18:02:19.886 [INFO ] [g.openhab.core.model.script.SF Tests] - Hour+1 power value: 2.497
2022-08-07 18:02:19.891 [INFO ] [g.openhab.core.model.script.SF Tests] - Forecast 2 days state: 112.483 kWh
2022-08-07 18:02:19.892 [INFO ] [g.openhab.core.model.script.SF Tests] - Forecast 2 days value: 112.483

> ````

Author: Changed

### Actions rule with Arguments

Only Solcast is deliering `optimistic` and `pessimistic` scenario data.
If arguments are used on ForecastSolar `UNDEF` state is returned

> ````

Author: Changed

rule "Solcast Actions"
    when
        Time cron "0 0 23 * * ?" // trigger whatever you like
    then 
        val sixDayForecast = solarforecastActions.getEnergy(LocalDateTime.now,LocalDateTime.now.plusDays(6))
        logInfo("SF Tests","Forecast Estimate  6 days "+ sixDayForecast)
        val sixDayOptimistic = solarforecastActions.getEnergy(LocalDateTime.now,LocalDateTime.now.plusDays(6),"optimistic")
        logInfo("SF Tests","Forecast Optimist  6 days "+ sixDayOptimistic)
        val sixDayPessimistic = solarforecastActions.getEnergy(LocalDateTime.now,LocalDateTime.now.plusDays(6),"pessimistic")
        logInfo("SF Tests","Forecast Pessimist 6 days "+ sixDayPessimistic)
end

> ````

Author: Correct, all replaced

shall produce following output

````
2022-08-10 00:02:16.569 [INFO ] [g.openhab.core.model.script.SF Tests] - Forecast Estimate  6 days 309.424 kWh
2022-08-10 00:02:16.574 [INFO ] [g.openhab.core.model.script.SF Tests] - Forecast Optimist  6 days 319.827 kWh
2022-08-10 00:02:16.578 [INFO ] [g.openhab.core.model.script.SF Tests] - Forecast Pessimist 6 days 208.235 kWh
````

## Date Time

Each forecast is bound to a certain location and this location is automatically bound to the TimeZone.
This binding is translating the forecast timestamps according to your Regional Settings in openHAB.
So you can query forecast data based on `LocalDate` and `LocalDateTime`.
This shall cover the majority of use cases.

There might be rare use cases querying foreign locations, e.g. `Aisa/Tokyo`.

> For this

Author: fixed
